Notes_from_the_author.md, before:

## Notes from the author

Please, do note that this repo is in PRELIMINARY design stage, and it is not yet completed. It is released to the
public as General Archtecture for MicroElektronica CLICK design, in attempt to integrate CLICK HW to BeagleBone
Black as the extension for the BBB usage.

Any comments, addendums, design considerations, system and application code written to drive CLICKs, any schematic,
connecting BBB and CLICKs (SPI/I2C mikroBUS bridge), are more than welcome since this repo is a living repo,
intended to be updated by interesting examples, and to be completed ASAP to reflect the CLICK integration with BBB.

Once this file is removed from this repo, this will be the sign that this repo is mature enough to be taken as
complete design and architecture for BBB, extended by MikroE CLICKs

This repo shows the general guidelines, how to add CLICK boards using BBB board based upon TI armv7 am335x Sitara
silicon.

## TODO tasks

	[1] Connecting BBB Expansion Header and MikroE mikroBUS schematic
	[2] MikroBUS bridge device/gadget performing the phy connection
	[3] CLICK SPI Flash System and Application SW, showing the CLICK Referent Example (Example 1)
	[4] CLICK SPI/I2C to Serial Bridge System and Application SW, showing the CLICK Referent Design (Example 2)

Thank you,
Zoran Stojsavljevic

Commit message:

Adding incomplete Master Example custom kernel configuration for MIKROE-3349

Notes_from_the_author.md, after:

## Notes from the author

Please, do note that this repo is in PRELIMINARY design stage, and it is not yet completed. It is released to the
public as General Archtecture for MicroElektronica CLICK design, in attempt to integrate CLICK HW to BeagleBone
Black as the extension for the BBB usage.

Any comments, addendums, design considerations, system and application code written to drive CLICKs, any schematic,
connecting BBB and CLICKs (SPI/I2C mikroBUS bridge), are more than welcome since this repo is a living repo,
intended to be updated by interesting examples, and to be completed ASAP to reflect the CLICK integration with BBB.

Once this file is removed from this repo, this will be the sign that this repo is mature enough to be taken as
complete design and architecture for BBB, extended by MikroE CLICKs

This repo shows the general guidelines, how to add CLICK boards using BBB board based upon TI armv7 am335x Sitara
silicon.

## TODO tasks

	[1] Connecting BBB Expansion Header and MikroE mikroBUS schematic
	[2] MikroBUS bridge device/gadget performing the phy connection
	[3] MASTER EXAMPLE MIKROE-3349: CLICK SPI/I2C to Serial Bridge - BBB Linux Kernel + DTS Configuration
	    (partially written, yet to be tested on BeagleBone Black)
	[4] Example 2: CLICK SPI Flash - BBB Linux Kernel + DTS Configuration

Zoran Stojsavljevic
