MikroE_BBB_CLICK_Design/README.md, before:

# MikroElektronika_CLICK_Design for BeagleBone Black

Open Source BeagleBone Black armv7 A8 platform reference and testing repository is created for MikroElektronika purposes.
Here, two examples how to use BeagleBone Black with MikroElektronica clicks are shown.

## Who is MikroElektronika?

https://www.mikroe.com/about

## What are the MikroElektronika products?

https://www.mikroe.com/

## BeagleBone Black HW, FW, SW Architectures

https://elinux.org/Beagleboard:BeagleBoneBlack

## BeagleBone Rev. C schematic (for download)

https://raw.githubusercontent.com/beagleboard/beaglebone-black/master/BBB_SCH.pdf

Schematic also could be found in local dir: Docs/BBB_SCH.pdf

## BeagleBone Expansion Header

![](Images/BBB_Expansion_Header.jpg)

## MikroElektronika mikroBUS design description

![](Images/mikroBUS.jpg)

## [TODO] Connecting BBB Expansion Header and MikroE mikroBUS schematic

## [TODO] MikroBUS bridge device/gadget performing the phy connection

## Example 1: MikroElektronika ISP flash click schematic

https://download.mikroe.com/documents/add-on-boards/click/flash/flash-click-manual-v100.pdf

### [TODO] CLICK SPI Flash System and Application SW, showing the CLICK Referent Example

## Example 2: MikroElektronika I2C/ISP to serial I/F click schematic

https://media.digikey.com/pdf/Data%20Sheets/MikroElektronika%20PDFs/MIKROE-3349_Web.pdf

### [TODO] CLICK SPI/I2C to Serial Bridge System and Application SW, showing the CLICK Referent Design

Commit message:

Adding incomplete Master Example custom kernel configuration for MIKROE-3349

MikroE_BBB_CLICK_Design/README.md, after:

# MikroElektronika_CLICK_Design for BeagleBone Black

Open Source BeagleBone Black armv7 A8 platform reference and testing repository is
created for MikroElektronika's purposes.

Two examples how to use BeagleBone Black with MikroElektronica's clicks are shown.

## Who is MikroElektronika?

https://www.mikroe.com/about

## What are the MikroElektronika's products?

https://www.mikroe.com/

## BeagleBone Black HW, FW, SW Architectures

https://elinux.org/Beagleboard:BeagleBoneBlack

## BeagleBone Rev. C schematic (for download)

https://raw.githubusercontent.com/beagleboard/beaglebone-black/master/BBB_SCH.pdf

Schematic also could be found in local dir: Docs/BBB_SCH.pdf

## BeagleBone Expansion Header

![](Images/BBB_Expansion_Header.jpg)

## MikroElektronika's mikroBUS design description

![](Images/mikroBUS.jpg)

## [TODO] Connecting BBB Expansion Header and MikroE mikroBUS schematic

## [TODO] MikroBUS bridge device/gadget performing the phy connection

## Master Example: MIKROE-3349: I2C/ISP to serial I/F click

https://media.digikey.com/pdf/Data%20Sheets/MikroElektronika%20PDFs/MIKROE-3349_Web.pdf

### CLICK SPI/I2C to Serial Bridge Systems and Application SW, showing the CLICK Referent Design

Please, go to:
https://github.com/ZoranStojsavljevic/MikroE_BeagleBone-Black-BSP_Integration/blob/master/MikroE_BBB_CLICK_Design/Systems_SW_Examples/MIKROE-3349.md

## Example 2: MikroElektronika's ISP flash click schematic

https://download.mikroe.com/documents/add-on-boards/click/flash/flash-click-manual-v100.pdf

### [TODO] CLICK SPI Flash Systems and Application SW, showing the CLICK Referent Example
